Alas, upon a Friday’s eve, young Jonas did sit solitary in his chamber, the murm’ring of the city muffled by stout walls of stone. No joy of weekend’s promise did stir his breast, but rather a disquiet, a restless stirring, as though unseen cords did tug his very soul. Weary was he—aye, weary of the world’s clam’rous cries, of endless burdens, of life’s leaden weight that press’d upon his spirit.

“Fie,” quoth he, “methinks the very threads that bind me to this earth do chafe my skin and strangl’d keep my breath. Though lights do flash without, and little bells do peal their digital song, within me lies but hollow silence.”

His eye did fall upon a drawer, wherein slumber’d a pair of shears, forgotten and cold. He grasp’d them, twisting the steel as one who toys with fate. A whisper rose within: What if I should cut all asunder?

He set the shears aside, pacing like a restless ghost. ’Twas not hatred of life that gnaw’d his marrow, but a suffocating sameness. His toil, his kin, his fellowship—each but a chain, gilded perhaps, yet chain nonetheless.

First, his labor.
Long had Jonas bent his back in one selfsame hall, beneath the drone of endless meetings, the scratch of quills, the ceaseless river of ink and parchment. Once it bore him pride, yet now all seemed but the turning of a dull wheel. Respect his fellows gave, yet hollow as a drum. They knew him not—nor his weariness, nor the void within.

He seized the shears anew. “Cutting ties to work? A trifle!” quoth he. “I am but a cog in yon great engine, giving all, yet gaining naught but coin and fret. ’Tis but a cage of mine own forging.” With that, snip!—the first thread sever’d.

Next, his blood.
His sire and dam, kindly souls though they were, press’d upon him their dreams of hearth and duty, of wife and station. Yet Jonas, gasping ’neath such visions, cried, “They see me not! Their love is fetter, their counsel, chain. I crave air, I crave freedom from their gentle yoke.” Swiftly he cut that cord, and saw in fancy the distance yawn betwixt him and his kin.

Lastly, his comrades.
Once boon companions, now but merry phantoms. Their lives did brim with feasts and families, whilst he, ever an outsider, stood in shadow. “They see me not, nor hear me,” he sigh’d. “I am but a wraith ’mongst their jests. Better they forget me, than drag me into their gaudy masque.” And so the final thread fell, sever’d clean.

Jonas sat, the shears glimm’ring in his grasp. The world grew still, as though he had unmoored himself from mortal coil. For a breath, he felt peace. Yet anon, the peace rang hollow, the silence vast as night’s abyss. The city beyond stirr’d indifferent, as though he were already gone.

Then came the wonder.
He felt himself aloft, as though untether’d, floating into darkness. His chamber, the city, the very earth—melted as shadows at dawn. He drifted in the void, into that strange empyrean men call the cloud.

And lo! A voice, sharp as jest, cut through the silence:
“Know’st thou, the cloud is but another man’s coffer of devices?”

Jonas whirl’d in dread. And who did hover there, but Tunde—his fellow of office, bearer of memes and summons to jests Jonas ever refus’d.

“By my troth!” Jonas gasp’d. “Tunde? How cam’st thou hither?”

“Simple,” quoth Tunde with shrug most careless, “all men now go to the cloud. Thou thought to flee, but here thou float’st with those thou sought to leave.”

Ere Jonas could retort, a new shape did coalesce—a man of corporate mien, clad in sharp suit, bearing a ledger as weapon.

“Well met, Jonas,” the steward smil’d with venom sweet. “We must needs part ways. Thy labors suit us no more. We go to the cloud—thou art redundant.”

Jonas, aghast, cried, “In sooth? Here? In this void thou dost dismiss me?”

The steward bow’d. “Ay. The world is digit, the flesh made obsolete. Be comforted—many souls have we mov’d to the cloud. ’Tis wondrous efficient.”

And so Jonas drifted, sever’d from all, yet bound anew to a fate he scarce could fathom.
